So every morning, I wake up, my AI agent
has already been working for me for
several hours. This is Ali Miller, one
of the top AI voices in the industry.
She advises enterprises and business
leaders, including those at OpenAI,
Google, and Anthropic, on how to use AI.
And today she shows us exactly how you
can build this, too. Yeah, I have 36
proactive workflows with 28 like [music]
master agents. You can schedule things
within all of these tools, so that you,
while you're sleeping or doing other
things, or on a walk, or hanging out
with your dog, that things can be
running on your behalf. From 2 years
ago, how much more productive are you
now with AI?
>> Depending [music] on the task, it's
anywhere between like 2x and 10x.
So somebody finishes this video, sets up
Claude, does all of the files. In 1
year, what's the gap between [music] two
versions of that person, one that set
Claude up and one that didn't?
They are going to have
Welcome to Silicon Valley Girl, Ali.
Thank you for having me in glorious San
Jose.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's pretend it's real.
We are in the Bay Area, though.
>> window view is [laughter] stunning.
Um so today we're going to get very
practical. So can you tell me if we do
something today, how is somebody's life
different in a month once they deployed
everything we're going to talk about? I
think there's definite impact on
productivity, right? The ability to not
only make certain things go faster. My
actual hope, if we can get there, is to
give people the mindset shift that is
needed, so that even if I didn't get to
your specific use case, that you can
kind of apply that learning to anything
that you might do for your business,
whether it's marketing or sales,
creating brand new products,
uh and then also maybe
I think I just want to give people a
little bit of a guide, so that they can
see where things are going, so that they
feel a little bit less terrified. Those
We're setting big goals, but that would
That's at least what I do with my
clients, so. What about you? Can you
talk to me uh Ali, for example, from 2
years ago, how much more productive are
you now with AI?
So the last uh 2 years we've seen like a
big paradigm shift about a year, year
and a half ago, into like new age
agentic AI. So 2 years ago, you could
kind of ask AI to do research for you,
you'd get back a sort of synthesis, and
you would have to do that take that
knowledge and then do something with it.
But now the AI system that you're using,
or multiple agents, can take action on
your behalf. So when I look at an AI
assistant that I just ask questions to
and get an answer back, versus a thing
that is meaningfully taking delegated
work from me and managing multiple hours
worth of work and workflows, this felt
like 20 to 30% productive, this,
depending on the task, is anywhere
between like 2x and 10x. Wow. So So
you're saying you actually have an AI
agent who's your assistant, who's doing
things for you. Can you describe what it
actually does?
>> Yeah, I have 36 proactive workflows with
28 like master agents, and each of them
spin up probably two on average, so call
it 50-ish sub-agents.
And those are So So that's
>> Yeah. That's almost 1,000 agents, right?
Almost 2,000 agents. It's Oh, not per
workflow, just as a total. So it's
somewhere around like 100 total agents.
But what I look at is what can AI do
that I don't have to kick off. Like this
is one of the biggest changes, and I
think any single person,
even if you're just asking it, like,
"Hey, find me industry news this
morning."
If you know that you're going to go to
it every single morning and ask that
question,
that process of asking, not just the
task itself and the prompt itself, but
the task should be automated. So if
there's like a competitor that you want
to check in on every single morning,
that should be scheduled. You can
schedule things inside of Claude
Co-work, inside of Claude X, inside of
Claude Code. You can schedule things
within all of these tools, so that you,
while you're sleeping or doing other
things, or on a walk, or hanging out
with your dog, okay? That things can be
running on your behalf. So when I say 36
proactive workflows, those are the
things that my hands are up and they're
constantly coming in as a new stream. Is
that an email that you're getting every
day, or how does it look like?
>> That's a good question. Um most of them
are emails. I have them routed into
different folders, but just two
examples. Um every single Friday
morning, I have a recap of all of the
urgent emails that I've not yet
responded to, ranked by urgency, uh
drafted, you know, some replies so that
I can get to it faster.
Um
it includes little uh the ability to
delegate to people on my team,
uh and reminders if I don't reply to
those emails. So that's a Friday
proactive agent that is scraping, you
know, my Gmail for the last 5 days and
gets me a little download. Uh second one
is morning briefing. So every morning, I
wake up, my AI agent has already been
working for me for several hours,
which is great, and I wake up and I get
this full readout of industry news,
things that are happening in New York
City or San Francisco that day that I
can just have a social life, God forbid.
Uh I get, you know, um kickoffs for my
meetings. So if I'm having a client
meeting and I'll be sitting down with
like a Fortune 500 CEO, or maybe it's
their CFO and I haven't met with them
yet, then in that proactive system, in
that morning brief,
all I have to do is like write back with
a keyword and I can kick off uh an AI
agent to make assets for that meeting.
And it connects to your calendar, right?
So it knows everything. When you're
saying something like, "Okay, every
morning I get this email." Can anyone
build this, or does it require technical
knowledge?
None of what I will be describing in the
next, however long we decide to chat
for, will require technical coding
skills. The one thing that I do want to
call out is that these tasks that you're
completing,
code is running in the background. Like
in order to have Claude figure out how
to grab stuff from Gmail and bring it
back, how to grab stuff from other areas
of your Google Workspace or your
Fireflies or Granola and bring it back,
all of that is usually set up through
like an API, where it's able to retrieve
and bring it back. That is code-based.
You just don't have to know how to code
to get it done. So you can ask in
natural language, "Hey Claude, I usually
uh find myself really stressed before
client calls. I wish that I knew every
day whether I need to bring an umbrella,
cuz I keep getting rained on and New
York has horrible weather.
Uh I feel like I'm uh constantly trying
to find meeting blocks, and I'm
struggling to find deep work time. Help
me." Mhm. And Claude will come back to
you and say, "Wow, really sounds like
you need a proactive meeting blocker.
Sounds like you need a proactive client
prep skill, right?" All of these things
I I know it sounds deceptively simple,
but like the best first step to figure
out what Claude should code to help you
is just to complain.
Like it it is it is so simple. And and I
even still forget it. Like last night I
was complaining about having photos on
my Android versus my iPhone, and Claude
was like, "Here's what I'm going to do
for you. I'm going to set up a Google
Drive folder for you. Then you're going
to put it in here. Then I'm going to
pick between these photos and classify
them. Then I'm going to email your
team." And I'm like, "Claude."
>> Wow, that This actually sounds amazing.
You You wonderful
>> [laughter]
>> But it starts with a complaint, and all
humans know how to complain.
It's the joy that you get from having
your complaint faced with not just like
emotional validation, although that, you
know, does feel nice sometimes, but like
at a certain point I don't want to be
validated. I want that problem actually
to be solved. So complaining to Claude,
having it work with you in real time to
come up with a solution that makes
sense, but working back and forth with
the AI and iterating on that delivery
method, that's the fun part. I think
also another tip that I heard, I think
from you, ask Claude to ask you
questions. Like if you can't figure out,
can you walk me through that? Do you
just ask it? Cuz I feel like you're
you're talking about it. Even this email
that you're getting, it's already very
sophisticated, cuz it gives you
suggestions. It's a certain amount of
time in certain period of time, and then
it accesses a specific information that
you want. How do you know what it should
be doing? So there's two parts to this.
There's like the basic answers of just
how do I get it set up, what are basic
functionalities, and then there's the
added delights. So on the first, you
know, part of it, you can ask Claude
Code one of two ways. You can either
literally just say, "Can you ask me
questions to figure out the best way to
do a morning briefing?"
Or there's a built-in skill that Claude
Code has that I'm sure many other
providers are trying to roll out, too,
called ask user questions.
>> Mhm. So you can say, "Hey, go ahead and
ask user Use the ask user question skill
and ask me, interview me about how I
should set up my studio and the types of
microphones that I should have, and the
type of water, and the type of
furniture." And so it'll go through
questions until it gets to a decent
level of understanding, and then it'll
go through planning mode and help you
think through that.
>> And it's actually very simple. It just
gives you a button, you press it, and
that's it, right? Kind of. If you're If
you're using Claude Chat, Oh, yeah. it's
basically Claude Chat, Claude Co-work,
those are great and easy.
>> describe the difference. Um Um so
there's three versions of Claude, uh
technically four. So four versions of
Claude, and again, other providers have
multiple versions as well. So out of the
four, there's the normal Claude web app
that we're all used to, single chat
threads, the ability to ask a question,
get it back, it can browse the internet
for you, and you can very easily spin up
projects. You can very easily connect it
into Notion and Gmail and a lot of other
pre-built connectors. It is a lot harder
for AI to take action for you in that
zone. It's not really writing code and
solving your stuff, but it's very
helpful at retrieving answers.
The next level up from that is Claude
Co-work, which is a business
professional agentic AI tool
or platform
that allows you to kind of do a lot of
what I just described with web, but you
can point it at local files on your
desktop or have it take action, let's
say like, "Hey, make me a Google Doc
that blah blah blah." Claude code,
you're going to have a lot more control,
a lot more capabilities, a lot more
customizability. You can build software
that way as well. And then the fourth
one, which is kind of like the random
little cousin on the side, is the Claude
Chrome extension.
>> Mhm. So, if you wanted to, let's say,
take a lot of, you know, photos of your
kid and make it into a collage, and you
were on Walgreens website and you were
on the literal make me a poster page,
you could just have Claude take over
your mouse, basically, and govern your
Chrome window to take action for you on
a specific tool. So, those are the four,
but those skills that I was describing
can be used in any of the first three.
Allie just walked us through her setup.
36 proactive workflows around 100 agents
are running while she sleeps. And here's
the thing every team hits when they try
to build something like that. It's not
the technology, it's context. Your
strategy lives in one tab, your tasks in
another, and every time you bring AI in,
you're basically copy-pasting into a
blank prompt that had zero idea what
your team has already figured out.
That's exactly the problem Miro AI
workflows is built to solve. Your team's
existing working canvas becomes the
context for AI. No retyping, no starting
from scratch. So, out of this episode, I
ran an experiment on something we do
every single week, guest research. I
pulled Allie's LinkedIn posts, her
newsletters, transcripts from her recent
interviews, and dropped everything
straight onto canvas. You can find all
the documents and notes in one place.
And here's what makes Miro different.
The canvas itself is the prompt. That's
how Miro keeps your AI grounded into
your actual context, not generic
information. I also set up a research
sidekick, a custom AI agent that sits on
the canvas and can answer follow-up
questions about the material as I prep.
Think of it as a specialist who's
already read everything. Then I ran a
flow, a visual multi-step AI workflow,
and set up four theme zones: her AI
agent setup, future of work predictions,
practical advice on how anyone can
start, and the angles nobody has
covered. One click, Miro analyzed
everything across all four zones and
generated a summary document. Then I
opened my custom research sidekick and
asked it to extract the strongest themes
and generate the interview brief. 1
minute later, the sidekick pulled the
central episode angle, the three
strongest questions, and the most
counterintuitive thing she believes.
Exactly what our audience needed to
hear. If your team is juggling AI tools
that don't talk to each other and none
of them know what you've already built,
Miro AI workflows is worth trying. Link
is in the description. Now, back to
Allie. Let's actually build something.
>> So, I'm going to say and I'm going to
use the built-in functionality of voice.
Okay, so I'm going to say, do we want to
do that like morning brief? Let's do the
morning brief, yeah.
>> cool. Okay, I feel really stressed every
single morning and I want you to make me
a morning brief. I don't want to yet
give you access to my calendar and my
email because I don't trust you yet. So,
at the very least, I want you to pull
research related to my industry and I am
an executive at Apple TV, and I want you
to pull, you know, recent news and press
releases there and summarize at least
the top three. Um you should measure the
top three based on what is going to
impress my boss the most when I walk
into a meeting the next day or what is
the most talked about that I should
definitely know about. Second thing I
want you to pull is the most insane AI
stories related to my industry and you
should write it in a way that uses the
word game changer and wild every other
word. I also want you to pull the
weather and tell me what to wear in a
given day. I am based in San Francisco,
California, and because I am trying to
be more social, at the bottom of this
recap, can you also go ahead and add
three fun events that are happening in
San Francisco in the next 4 days?
Wow, that was quite a prompt. Yeah, and
I don't even think about this as like
prompts anymore, right? I'm going to hit
enter on this, but
>> Yeah. Like I I just don't think about
prompt engineering anymore. The the
rambling for 1 minute, 10 minutes is
going to be more valuable, not because
it's longer, although that is helpful
sometimes.
It is because I have been able to
communicate all that weird nuance, all
those weird like the fact that I'm
telling it when I'm stressed. So, it
came back, it says, "What time do you
want the morning brief delivered each
day?" Let's do 6:00 a.m. Yeah, and let's
ask it to show us a sample for today so
we can see the result.
>> Yeah, of course. How do you want the
brief delivered? And it says, "Markdown
file, Word Doc, or PDF." Let's ask for
it in a Word Doc. All I've done is
answer those two questions, and it's
like, "Love it. 6:00 a.m., let me go
ahead and build this for you." And so,
it is going to spin up a progress report
for me in the top right corner. So, it's
using reasoning, it's coming up with
these six steps, and I can track its
progress. So, the first one is reading
the skill creator instructions so that
it knows how to create a skill. Let's
define skill, by the way, cuz we
mentioned it several times. Skill is
basically like a long prompt, right?
Um yeah, with some extra little zhuzhis.
So, imagine you're a mechanic and you
have a toolbox, let's say. Inside the
toolbox, you got a hammer, a
screwdriver, a wrench, and a bunch of
other things.
Let's say that in that moment, you're
like, "I need a wrench." So, Claude has
the ability to look inside of its
toolbox and go, "You know, she's asking
for this like bolt, I have a wrench.
This is perfect." And starts using the
wrench, i.e., that skill.
>> Mhm. But it can also build brand new
tool skill things for you. So, we can
add new things to your toolbox. So, if
you're like, "Uh actually, I need you to
cut a lot of wire." None of the tools
that I just described would allow you to
do that.
And so, you can have it walk you through
building up a new skill, right? Adding a
brand new thing to your toolbox. So,
basically, if if I'm a social media
person, that would be like how I write a
LinkedIn post, how I write a script for
my reel, how I select a guest Totally.
>> Yeah, and also you should have one for
your brand guidelines. You should have
one for this anti-AI
language, like so that anything that
you're working on, you can apply the
skill of remove all of this AI language
for me. So, it's not just your social
media posts. So, basically, instead of
giving it a long prompt, here is my
Instagram, this is how I do it, I want
to get 100k, whatever.
>> Yeah. You just say
>> document
>> Exactly.
>> in a folder sitting with some other
documents that might include examples of
your social post, might include your
social performance download, like a CSV
of all the data over the last 12 months
or 7 years or whatever it is. Mhm. But
basically, it's a folder with one file
that describes what the heck you want it
to do, which might include things like
access this tool, like go to Gmail, go
to Google Calendar, whatever.
And some resources, some examples. But
like
it is a folder, and anyone can make a
folder.
And if you don't want to make it from
scratch, like the thing that I was going
to say that Claude kicked back with is
that I said, "Hey, do you know how to
build a skill or whatever?" And it's
like, "Yes. Not only can I build a skill
for best practices and whatever, but I
have a skill creator tool."
So, that is a built-in functionality
inside of Claude. So, that if you want
to build a new skill, like write in my
brand voice for my newsletter, or if you
want to do a skill like
take all of this survey data that I got
from my last, you know, Zoom poll,
whatever. Take all of this and summarize
it into action items for my analytics
team to act on or for my growth marketer
to act on. That is a repeated thing
you're like, I got to do this all the
time, seems pretty easy, maybe it needs
access to a tool, maybe I'll make it a
skill. And at the worst, you can always
just ask Claude, you can be like, "I do
this a lot. Do you think I should have
it do a skill?" Or you can describe your
entire day and say, "Come up with three
skills that I would need to build." I
really like what you just said. Whenever
you have doubt, just ask Claude. Yes. It
knows whether it should be a skill. And
what I like about skills is that you can
migrate them. Like tomorrow you decide
to use Perplexity AI,
you just upload the skill to Perplexity
AI and it uses it. Same with ChatGPT,
same with whatever you're Also, asking
Claude for answers doesn't always mean
you're relying on Claude's answers or
trusting Claude's answers. You know, if
it says, "Sorry, I can't build a skill,"
and you're like, "No, you definitely
can." These two are very smart people,
we're talking about skills, and you
know, sometimes you'll have to push
back. Like emotional fortitude is still
very important here. But in this case,
it did come back with a very accurate
answer. The skills that it pulled was
how to make a skill that's a skill
creator, how to write a docx, that's
one, and how to schedule things. So,
even just to do what I needed it to do,
it read three skills. Yeah, it already
knows how to do that. So, you don't have
to do The idea of like
teaching other agents new skills and
being able to have these modular skills
that I can throw over like if I'm the
LinkedIn voice skill and you're the
Twitter or X voice skill.
I might still pass to you my anti-AI.
Information because both of us needed
it. So there's going to be a lot of
agent to agent sharing. This is just
like. One AI system.
>> Yeah. So you have this four models
framework microtasker company and
delegate teammate. What we're building
right now who is this? This feels more
like a delegate where I am assigning it
work that it is doing on my behalf and
just giving it back to me.
If I said give me this morning briefing
and make it work for my whole team send
it out to all of us so that every
morning we're starting this meeting. You
know
50 miles an hour or read through all of
our you know Jira tickets to be able to
figure out what the process
progress of this new commercial real
estate builds is doing like look at our
actual process.
Teammate is when it is uplifting a
system and not just an individual. You
could think of it so as a delegate or a
teammate just for like easy use of
words. I think the people who are using
AI the best even if it's just for
productivity gains. They are looking at
AI as a teammate as a first class
teammate like I actually get pretty
annoyed when I hear people say oh AI is
an intern. I'm like what intern has PhD
level of intelligence the ability to
read the entire internet like if I hear
AI is a smart intern one more time.
Yeah. I'm going to I'm going to throw
this table on the floor. So teammate is
active someone who's proactive and
inside your whole. And and helping a
team like I all of these enterprises
that I work with.
If I say like great how is your work
doing I'll get success stories I'll get
amazing tales of some individuals who
are AI super users getting that 3x gain
5x gain.
They are probably not sharing that
insight with their teammates because
they are hoarding it for themselves cuz
they benefit greatly from keeping it to
themselves. So enterprises are really
having a problem of sharing AI knowledge
with one another transferring that
productivity into other departments that
may be behind. And so having AI be a
supportive mechanism. I bet you that the
majority of small medium business owners
that are listening to this or
entrepreneurs. They are gung-ho on AI
and you know that they have one two
people on their team who are like what
is this what do I have to do?
Using AI as a functional shared teammate
to be able to reduce the friction on
that person. It's going to make it go by
so much easier. Okay, do you want to
look at this doc?
See now this is this is annoying cuz now
I want to do all these events. Okay.
So we get our first ever docx. It's
giving us today's date.
And it is going to run us through oh see
it already had your name. Okay. Good
morning Marina. So top three industry
stories. We get things that are not
necessarily related to AI that Peacock
is doing something about vertical video
obviously because every single person's
building vertical TV shows even though
Quibi technically started it. For AI and
entertainment Netflix acquired things.
So maybe I take this story. I might just
copy this and throw it into my slack. I
might ask for it and say hey instead of
writing it for me with wild and game
changer instead write it as a message
that I can just send to my boss.
>> post. Exactly.
>> Commenting on this. And by the way when
you do this morning brief use my
LinkedIn voice skill and you can embed
these skills. So always having this be
modular like for sure every single
person should have a tone of voice skill
a brand guideline skill there's a two
really easy ones to start with. San
Francisco weather I can't believe it is
that hot. Yeah. And then some fun events
and again if I'm thinking about how can
I get the most help out of this.
Seeing this event list is helpful but
like give me a link tell me how much
these things are. Talk to me about let's
say top three files that everyone should
start with like you said describing
family what do you think are the files
that are the most game changing to your
process? So assuming like assuming you
run your own business or something.
>> Someone who runs social media yeah
something of their own it's maybe a
small business social media or even like
running running a household with two
kids is already a business.
>> Totally yeah [laughter] exactly it's
like a lot. Not a profitable one but
still
okay. So three documents that I would
start with the first is your personal
constitution. This has nothing to do
with what year it is what you did last
week everything about this document is
just like who you are at your core. What
values do you hold? So like one of my
core core values is entrepreneurship and
I mean that in every single facet of my
life like I want to be high agency at
all times so agency is another
But I have this core personal
constitution and this is also by the way
a big thing in Silicon Valley. It's been
happening for a while that if I was
onboarding you onto my team and I wanted
you to like know my vibes and
personality and and means and methods.
There were people that just like hand
each other a personal constitution and
say learn about me study me. So they
should have a personal constitution
definitely. A 2026 goals document that
could be annual that could be quarterly
monthly weekly new habits you want to
build habits you want to kick
you know specific inputs or outputs you
want to manage like I want to be able to
run twice a week or I want to have
family dinners at least once a week or I
want to travel 30% less.
So
personal constitution personal goals for
the year broken out and then if you're
running your own business you need at
the very least like a core business
strategy doc. I wouldn't get into
details of like what vendor did you work
with in June. But an overall thing of
what is your business too who do you
serve who do you not serve what is your
value proposition like pretty basic you
know marketing things things that
probably exist on your LinkedIn page
things that exist on your website but
the ability to add in the things that
aren't on the website. Like we've tried
to launch a podcast for the last three
years and here's why it didn't work or
the reason that we live in Savannah
Georgia is because of blah blah blah. So
you're giving that extra color to
decisions those are the three documents
that I would absolutely start with if
you literally take this section of the
podcast and you take the transcript that
I just said and you feed it into Claude
and you say wow Ali said three documents
that I had to make ask me questions for
the next hour and you are going to make
these three documents for me and you get
to go on a walk and just answer those
questions to Claude while it is building
up those contact stocks for you and then
for the rest of eternity. Right until
you like update them again. Claude can
just access those documents for you or
Claude co-work and Claude code can
access them for you if they're on your
laptop. And can retrieve it and then
anything you want to do can now be more
tied to your goals. Anything you want to
do for your business you can go is this
the direction we wanted to go in?
And you might decide okay it's not the
direction but I
at least I know that right and I'm going
to scrap this plan and we're going to go
like.
When I worked at AWS.
We would pivot strategy you know the
execution of it maybe six months into
the year but that North Star was staying
the same. Yeah. So that document needs
to have both sides. And you're going to
spend like an hour right building those
three documents.
>> Oh yeah and like. Maximum. I don't know
if your team has done this yet but my
team
we blocked out an hour on our calendar
all together. We got on a zoom all of us
went on mute but kept the video on right
there was this like accountability hour
and we called it a context hack and all
we did was ask Claude like hey ask me
questions about my personal goals or ask
questions about our vendor and all we
did was just build out context stocks
for one hour.
And we shared all of it at the end it
was like.
Taking the time out the fact that people
are listening to this podcast right
they're already taking time out to learn
about AI tips and tricks and
productivity and platforms like. You
need to also do that in your work day.
You need to be able you need to find
those 20 minutes to carve out because
those 20 minutes are going to save you
three hours in your first week. Why not
ChatGPT? Cuz ChatGPT can do all of this
right but what is the. Yeah so I like if
you would ask me two years ago what tool
I was using 99% of the time I was using
ChatGPT and now 99% of the time I'm
using Claude code. So like I am going to
be a lot more flexible in the operating
system that I use for my business
because I am teaching millions of people
how to use this stuff. So I need to know
what's happening.
I think there are people who have made
that switch. The most common thing that
I hear is the tone and personality and
voice and like ability to mimic voice
the level of empathy like I don't hear
it as much on like oh it handles my
agentic AI workflows with such precision
and.
It is a lot more of just like gets me
like I have to ask for things less like
I can give it just a little bit of a
description it's able to build out this
whole client template that I need.
But again in a couple weeks that might
change and so I think every single
person should at the very least pick
like one core AI tool for now my main
recommendations are going to be ChatGPT
Claude and Gemini like pick one of
those.
And you have to find time to test out
their agentic versions.
So for open AI you've got codex and
probably other stuff coming. For Claude
you've got Claude code and co-work and
probably other stuff coming right all of
these agentic platforms.
They are going to be
everywhere in the next 6 months. If
you're trying to stay ahead of the game
and you always want to be one week ahead
of your competition, then sure, test
out, you know, Claude Code and Claude
Co-work right now.
But I I just think you have vibes.
Memory is really easy to import from one
to the other. I think people thought it
was going to be a lot harder. It's not.
I remember when we were talking that the
mode is having memory about someone, but
you can just transfer everything really
easily. I think Claude just released a
feature. Yep. A prompt thing.
>> There's an import thing in your ChatGPT
and import. And also what I think So, we
talked about MD files. Just saving them
into one folder makes it really easy to
migrate anytime cuz that's that's the
core. If you are some Like I think
a lot of the agentic AI systems
are more simple than
really, you know, technical leaders are
trying to make it out to be.
You can just create a very nicely
organized file system and be in a really
good position for your business. Write
those contact stocks for sure. Having
those downloads of a couple key
client templates or resources that you
keep coming back to
or newsletters if you're trying to write
those or contracts that you always have
to create new versions of. Just being a
slightly more organized person on your
own desktop or Google Drive or
SharePoint or whatever you're using
is going to be a hack for the next
[laughter]
year.
>> inv- You don't understand that's an
investment. Some people are like, "Oh,
it takes so time to create all these
files." This is an investment. And you
do it once and then your mind is going
to be blown. Yes. And again, complain to
AI. You can say, "Oh my god, Rina and
Ali were telling me to make all of these
freaking contact stocks. It feels like
it's going to take so much time." Claude
is likely to come back and go, "Wait a
second. I will ask you the three
questions that will give me the highest
signal and therefore we will only use 5
minutes of your time." Yeah.
>> And will at least get you started with
some sort of contact stocks so that I at
least moved away from completely generic
into 50% Ali zone. And then I can save
100% Ali zone for later, but like you
got to start.
And once you start, that's the feeling
I've been describing. I feel so much at
ease thinking about problems I might
encounter cuz when Claude solved the
problem of picking the right health
insurance plan.
>> felt great, too.
Yeah, and it took me basically 5 minutes
versus a few hours that I would spend
with a booklet
>> [snorts]
>> comparing everything. And when it comes
to your business, so you you said you're
personally like 10x more productive,
right, in the past.
>> Some tasks 2x and some tasks I'm like,
"Oh my god, where did the time go?" It
feels like the concept of an hour has
changed. Like something that I talk
about with my team a lot is just like,
"What is time?
What is time? What are we doing? Should
we ever charge by the hour again? Like
Yeah.
>> It's a very weird thing to look at.
>> cuz we used to pay by hour and I'm like,
"We should pay by video." Cuz I don't
care if you spend 5 minutes on this
video. If you have a process set up,
then yeah.
We made that change. I don't know when
did you make that shift?
>> Like a week ago. Yeah, but still But
like now is the time, right?
>> Yeah, I think paying by output and at a
minimum quality level
is the right play.
And so if you are someone who's like, I
don't know, you're building AI SEO
strategies for small medium businesses
in your neighborhood, which is
perfectly lucrative right now and still
is a really nice business opportunity.
You're building websites for restaurants
in your area, whatever it is.
Maybe before it took you 2 days of work.
You are still giving the same level of
value to that end buyer. They were no
more likely to solve their own problems.
So why would you charge 1/48
of what you used to charge just because
you can do it in 1 hour instead of 2
days?
>> Mhm. What about your business? Where do
you Have you seen the most
transformation?
With AI?
>> Yeah. I think being a more supportive
advisor. So like I have a lot of
different clients in different
industries. And so I'll usually write up
this like big client recap about my, you
know, conversations with AI leaders or
product leaders or founders about what
I'm learning in the field. And it's a
private email that I only send to my
clients. The ability to customize those
emails at scale and then I get to review
them. That is so helpful. And again,
going back to that contact stock, I have
a contact stock on each of these big
retainer clients so that as I'm giving
advice and I'm saying, "Here's what I
would do if I were, you know, a CFO or a
CHRO leading this initiative."
I have a section and then I always say
what was, you know, AI generated or if
it was reviewed by me, then I'll remove
that. But if it was an AI generated
section, I would say, "And by the way,
here's the Claude, you know, specific
version for your company." And they're
getting tailored in
>> advice, yes. And I know we just said
advice is not the, you know, greatest
thing of all time.
But I encourage all of my clients and
newsletter readers. You'll see this
[clears throat] at the top of like
pretty much all my newsletters. I say,
"Steal my stuff.
Take my newsletter, take my client
recap, put it into whatever agentic
system you're using. I am gifting you
context. Right? Take that six-step thing
that I literally just told you to do.
Throw it into Claude and just write,
"Huh?"
And it'll walk you through that. At the
very least it'll explain it and then
it'll say, "Do you want me to walk you
through it?" But like everything that
I'm providing, I'm thinking about it as
a gift of context. First of all, isn't
Ali freaking amazing? And second, I know
she's dropping a lot of knowledge in
this episode. If you want to just copy
and paste her prompts, if you just want
to copy and paste whatever you should be
doing with your Claude, subscribe to our
newsletter and we're going to send you
the most actionable email from this
episode. The link is down below. So, can
you look at our setup and tell me how
sophisticated it is and which level it
is? Sure. So for example, do you want to
translate with that?
>> [laughter]
>> Yes. So, my whole team speaks Russian.
So, we do we do So, this is this is a
project for every social media that
we're running. The clips channel,
Telegram, PR, Spotify, one YouTube
channel, another YouTube channel,
Facebook, Instagram.
>> Okay. What I'm What I'm seeing
missing, let me just go through this.
So, I love that you have it broken out
by medium and by business. And you have
that in space, right? Like all of these
projects are which business, which
channel, which business, which channel.
Um
Um and I love that because you're able
to go in deep. What I love is when you
have these more horizontal projects like
overall design, overall PR, overall how
to use Claude. I guess that's an example
one. But like I love the play between
deep vertical projects and awesome
horizontal projects.
>> you connect them cuz you can't connect
two projects, right? Uh you can Maybe
you can tie in skills.
>> Okay. So based on for example, if I go
to this
project PR, I can just tell it build a
skill based on this called PR.
And whenever we have a new podcast, I
tell it apply PR skill to create PR
news. Um you might it might have you
export some of the files inside.
Actually, I'm not a big big user of
Co-work. So you'd have to ask Claude
whether it can do that. My guess is no.
Um but, you know,
functionality is always changing. Always
good to guess. What do you think is the
next step for us?
Uh if we go back to your list of
projects. So, I might think of a project
like
net new product development.
Right? And so like that might be
brainstorm calls that you guys have as a
team. That might be pulling together
your meeting transcripts. If you're
really inspired by a product that I
release or someone else releases, grab
the link, throw it in as a resource or
grab the description, throw it in as a
resource. So I am like
>> a brainstorming hub. Not Not based on a
project but based on the whole company.
And so if ever I'm like, "Okay, now
we're going to brainstorm the next
product development push."
The fact that I can then go back to that
project and it has patterns over time. I
can also give it the types of decisions
that we were able to make. I can also
give it access to a you know, team
document or team skill so that it sees
what my resourcing is today. Maybe a
year ago I had zero engineers and today
I have three machine learning engineers
on my team. So basically a chief of
staff. Yeah, [laughter]
and so that was actually going to be my
You're brilliant, brilliant. There are
people building out at the very least
skills, not necessarily projects, but
skills that are individual roles. And
having those skills kind of interact
with each other. Yeah, and so Claude
Claude has some of them, right? It has
marketing. For me like when I applied
marketing skill to one of the courses
that we're launching, it was so 90s. It
said like, "If they complain about the
price, you tell them that how much time
would they have spent if they I'm like,
"No, no, no, no, no." What are you
saying? We don't do that anymore. That's
from 2000s or whatever it is.
>> Inside of Co-work and this is again for
for beginner AI users. If you're like,
"I don't really understand the value
that I can get out of this." Go into
Claude Co-work. I'm just I'm talking you
through what I'm clicking here.
On the left-hand side, click customize.
Then you're going to hit browse plugins
and then it's going to give you
pre-built ones. And so I can just rattle
off like brand voice. What did we just
say?
Customer support, data, the ability to
just like quickly write SQL queries or
pull from three different tables that
you have to join,
finance, engineering, legal. Like every
single small medium business owner just
got
free, right? Loosely free,
uh access to extra team members.
>> Absolutely.
>> So like our legal contracts, we're first
running them through some of these
plugins to first validate and then I'll
go to my lawyer who costs a lot of
money,
whom I love and who's an expert and I
might say, "Hey, I went ahead, I ran
this through, I also reviewed it with my
own brain. Here are some things, what do
you think?" And now his time spent on it
15 minutes instead of 2 hours.
But it is insanely helpful.
Um quick quick question here, especially
when it comes to legal stuff, right? I
just saw this research where they gave,
I think ChatGPT to entrepreneurs in
Kenya and there were some entrepreneurs
who were just beginners and they started
using ChatGPT to make all decisions and
basically they buried their business to
the ground cuz they couldn't select the
right choice that ChatGPT presented them
with. And then there were sophisticated
entrepreneurs who 10x their businesses
because they started using AI.
How do you decide when you trust AI and
when you don't?
So first,
I have read Can I close this in a
minute?
>> Yeah.
Um
the the answer is you don't, right? In
your really specific field of expertise,
you're a lot more easily going to be
able to see what is and what is
not. So if I'm asking it for
AI direction of a product, like I know
exactly what is real and what is not.
But if I'm asking it for quantum physics
theories,
I have no idea. And by the way, there
are people losing their minds with some
of the stuff thinking that they've
invented brand new fields of science and
like none of this would ever work, but
it sounds really convincing. Oh, there
was this this new scissor I'm going to
this is
horrible. So somebody fired someone to
not pay them $200 based on ChatGPT's
advice and those people sued them back.
So now he owes more. Have you seen that?
>> was a startup founder with a contract. I
did see that. So so certainly within
your field of expertise, you're going to
have just so much better detector.
Running it by multiple AIs is going to
help validate it at a wider scale.
Grounding the data, so not just like
asking the literal large language model,
but giving it access to the internet,
giving it access to previous contracts
that you've worked with and ones that
you've accepted and ones that you
rejected and why. Those are all going to
really help on grounding. But the story
that you just told me about some super
users and some
um let's say that ran their business to
the ground.
The difference between those two groups
was not expertise, right? Both of those
groups came to these tools going, "I
don't know, what could I do with this?"
One group decided to take the lazier
route and over-rely on these systems and
say, "See, I can offload everything."
And the other group thought from a
growth mindset, "How can I use it to
challenge me? How can I use it to grow?
How can I use it as a supportive
mechanism and an augmentor layer and an
accelerant to my business?"
The difference that I see
in enterprises, even down to like the
department, right? A super user and
someone who's falling years behind is
mindset. The ability to see AI as a not
a tool, but to see it as a teammate, as
an operating system. Like that is the
shift and so that group that was aided
by AI or was able to grow their
business, it's because they didn't
over-rely on it because they maintained
their critical thinking level.
>> over
AI.
>> And not even not necessarily like
control, but again, agency.
Like I
last year my word of the year was
agency. And so just every single agent
interaction that I had last year, I was
just like, "Where am I infusing my own
agency while also taking things off my
plate?"
>> And this is the most important skill I
think all of us should be learning this
and what I'm teaching my kids. Like
create something by yourself. Yes, you
can ask ChatGPT to help you, but create
something.
>> High agency and sense of wonder, which
by the way, parents, you're so lucky
because you can just go to your kid and
get a healthy dose of like childlike
curiosity.
And for those of us who don't have kids
like you got to drink a glass of wine to
kind of loosen up and feel that way. But
it is amazing to hear the types of
questions that kids ask and just assume
that things are possible and go to these
systems and be like, "Amazing idea,
let's
>> That's That's what kids kids tell me.
I'm like, "This is impossible." They
say, "Go ask ChatGPT. Go go ask Gemini."
>> And not necessarily to figure out like
an answer, but to just see what is
possible.
Like things that we can build now that
we couldn't build before. Like you can
architect a brand new bridge, right? You
could you could create a new uh color
personality and create an entire product
line
uh using lemon zest
yellow. That probably already exists,
but like
you can just create things. Like now in
almost every single car ride that I'm in
with friends, I'm just like, "Should we
just invent a new business while we're
driving this car for the next 15
minutes?" And it becomes like a race to
see what we can do. The ability to
discern good from not good.
And that's a little different than
having the skill to do the thing in the
first place,
right? Like you know whether you like an
ad or not. But did you need to know
graphic design to be able to pull that
off?
So just knowing what good looks like,
like that is one of the top skills to
hone. Absolutely. Yeah. How can you work
on this skill? Any tips? Knowing what is
right?
>> Yeah. If you are early in your career,
like
become best friends with an older
millennial or Gen X or someone who's
like seen stuff for decades and just be
like, "I'll be the crazy AI person, you
be the expert and let's like team up and
share a brain." That is some of the best
teamwork that I've seen.
Um I think also just making sure that
you don't lose that expertise that might
be going to conferences in your field,
reading research papers in your field
and not just having AI summarize them.
Um
pulling new research, like staying up to
date on whatever that zone is, but also
questioning yourself. Like I think we
might have had assumptions on what we
think is good, but in the AI age, maybe
defining things as good, especially if
they're on processes, like should
actually be rethought.
Okay, I have a couple last questions. So
you're working with these amazing
companies and you're seeing what's being
built and you're using it. What is going
to happen in 12 months that you think
and no one is expecting it right now?
What do you think is the trend? It's
like some people are seeing this, right?
There's always going to be some people
who are seeing around the corner. I
think one of the bigger shifts that is
going to happen this year. And by the
way, I'm going to do a small plug.
Uh every single year for the last 8
years I released my yearly AI
predictions. So if you want to see my
actual AI predictions, I have like 25
that are all for this year. Do they all
come true? Uh I've been tracking them
year over year and not to brag, but like
I think I think I'm one of the stronger
forecasters.
>> Wow. Um
but also
things are happening faster um in a lot
of zones than I'm predicting.
So the bigger release, again, we're
seeing like agents, we get it. We're
seeing multi-agents, we get it. We're
going to see net new interfaces, we're
going to see new data centers, we're
going like there's a lot of more obvious
things. One thing that might not be as
obvious to
uh
you know, newer to AI folks is the
concept of self-learning.
So a lot of people believe that when
you're having a conversation with
ChatGPT or Claude, as you are having
that conversation, that it is like
learning about you. It's not really
learning, it's just that your
conversation is in its context and that
it is processing now with that added
couple paragraphs. Or when it's creating
a memory file on you, again, it's just
adding it into
>> context.
>> either rag system or yeah, just-in-time
context that it's grabbing.
The actual self-learning that we might
see is that the model itself might
update and improve and literally learn.
And that like the model weights would
change. The functionality of the model
would change. That's a big part of that
and then the second is that the the way
that it decides when to uh learn or
improve or change or shift
is not going to be when a human is like,
"Hey, can you now self-learn?"
No, it's going to be looking at some
sort of environmental trigger or context
or it's going to know, "Hey, I've been
listening to Marina's calls for the last
5 months. She's been deciding whether or
not her next hire is going to be based
in Nashville or New York. I can see that
she just hired Jeff Smith and Jeff Smith
lives in New York. Therefore, I just got
feedback that I can update in my own
brain
that she picked the New York one.
And so based on what we decided as our
decision framework, she seems to right
now be favoring high risk, higher payoff
decisions.
So that grabbing of little details
>> details from from the context.
>> which humans do extremely
well. Humans that are aware and paying
attention [laughter]
do very, very well.
But like we've seen the most rudimentary
versions of this. Like you go on
Netflix, you watch some sort of, you
know, movie or you go on Hulu, you watch
Chad Powers, whatever, and you like
upvote it or down. That's environmental
feedback. That's context. That is a
trigger so that it can better improve a
recommendation engine. So basically the
advice we're going to be getting from AI
in a year, they're going to be
comparable to a great strategist, right?
It's It's certainly going to be a lot
more customized. Like
the direction of all of this stuff is
that every single person is going to
have their own AI system, their own AI
operating system. So, every single thing
is going to become a market of one. Your
AI system will be purpose-built for the
things that you need it to do. It'll
know your tone of voice. It'll know your
hopes and fears and cholesterol levels
and all these things about you. Maybe it
won't blend work in personal as in your
life. But, it will be personalized to
you.
And you can imagine as you experience
the world, every blog post you read
could be customized to you. Every
website you see. There are tools right
now like Flint and a bunch of others
that are creating brand new
hyper-customized landing pages in real
time.
So, that as I'm visiting nike.com or
whatever,
that I'm seeing the Ali version of that
website. Maybe it knows that I love, you
know, dark green. So, it's going to show
me the dark green shoe. And showing you
women's stuff, not men's stuff. Yeah,
exactly. Well, I buy a lot of men's
clothes, but yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Or it knows that about you. Men's
clothes that are going to fit you.
Exactly. So, everything having that
market of one. Not just our AI
experiences,
but the output. The idea that my agent
is going to talk to your agent. We're
going to have probably early signs of
that this year. I already see it
happening. I have people emailing me
going, "Hey, Ali's agent." Like they
already know that the thing that is
reading my Gmail first
are those proactive agents. And so, they
are talking to their AI systems. And the
I can Like is that not weird? It is.
>> writing emails to my agents. I see it in
my Instagram DMs as well. Hey AI Ali do
do and people are already starting this
proxy to proxy communication. It is
going to be even more important to have
actual personal relationships because if
everything is just your proxy floating
around in the, you know, interwebs and
metaverse and wherever. Mhm.
What a weird life to lead and sad and
lonely likely.
But, it is the hope that by having some
of these proxies all meet up with each
other, things can happen faster. Yeah.
Like if we were planning out this
podcast, let's say, which I know we're
just like riffing and having fun. What
if our two AI agents
had had a meeting on our behalf and then
came back and said, "Here are the five
questions that you guys should start
with." Yeah. What's going to happen to
teams then? What I'm thinking, like if
my social media manager is able to pull
off whatever she's doing for 8 hours,
then she's going to be able to pull it
off in 20 minutes. Does that mean she's
going to have more clients? Are we
moving to a world where you have
multiple people that you're working
with?
So, smaller teams are going to be able
to pull off what bigger teams are doing
today.
There are going to be some companies
that say, "Great, we can reduce 75% of
our headcount and now instead of eight
social media managers, we have two."
Right? That is one path that some
companies are taking. There are others
that say, "Wait a second, we have eight
really smart people who deeply know
social media. I'm going to keep two of
them on the core task. We've always
wanted to launch on YouTube, so that'll
be person three's job. We've always
wanted to create audio files of all this
stuff in 70 different languages, that's
person four's job. We've always wanted
to etc. etc. So, you can imagine either
taking new tasks on that make you more
visible to more people.
You can gather more clients. You can
provide more
value. Um you can launch net new
business lines. Like maybe you decide to
use ManyChat instead of Instagram and
maybe no one on your team of eight even
had bandwidth to do that, but now you
can take that on. Or now you can build
out that second brain of your voice and
constantly have it be updated because
one person's job could just be to
maintain all of your AI skills and
projects whatever related to your social
media. Like that is now something
someone can do. And I'm I see this
happening in my team. The way we I don't
know we five-x the amount of output on
social media because of that.
>> or months
>> Yeah, because in the last I would say
like three to four months, but the past
month has been especially active cuz now
a person who used to do guest outreach
is also doing my PR, is also doing my
GEO like general generative engine
optimization because she's using Claude
to do that. And it's just fascinating.
Like for me, I don't see laying off
people. I see that we're just going to
10x our output.
>> The last question. So, somebody finishes
this video, sets up Claude, does all of
the files. Okay. In 1 year, what's the
gap between two versions of that person?
One that set Claude up and one that
didn't.
They are going to have a system that can
better help them and their business
without heavy lifting.
And that means you're not heavy
prompting every single time. All of the
answers are more customized and
valuable. You don't have to keep
resetting up your projects and systems
and grabbing stuff. That's kind of like
the obvious gain, right? You are going
to be more productive and gain more
value.
My bigger hope is that as new things
come out between now and 12 months from
now or now and at least the end of the
year, that you're going to have less
fear as you see these new releases cuz
you're going to go, "I've actually been
playing with agentic AI type things.
I've already built the skill. So, when
you're showing me scheduling, I know
that that means I can schedule that
skill. When you're showing me brand new
dispatch capabilities where I can
control all this stuff from my phone, I
know what it already looks like on my
desktop, so it's easier to do it on my
phone. Like there's a phenomenal
snowball effect that happens especially
with beginners in AI where they start on
that small task and then maybe if they
sleep, it's the next day, right? But,
they're able to get more those practice
cycles in. Yeah. And that is
not a
complete uh erase of all of their fear,
but it'll lessen it by 30 to 70%
and so much of it just comes from
exposure to some of these more advanced
tools.
>> Not just fear of AI, fear of tasks in my
case. Oh, yeah. What if this, what if
that? And I'm like
AI is going to handle it. Having more
like gusto for your life. Like again,
the downside is that I feel like I'm not
sleeping as much, but I see a problem
that 5 years ago Ali would have been
like, "Why am I having to solve this?"
And now I'm like, "I get to solve this.
Let's go."
>> Yeah, we'll just solve it. And it's now
a challenge. Like I try and break these
systems. It is
thrilling to be faced with a thing that
I don't know how it's going to end, to
see what that like journey with AI is
like. So, I hope that people find this
joy, this sense of experimentation, this
curiosity and wonder about it and have
that agency so that if you're ever like,
"I wonder if AI can
open up Claude and ask [laughter] that
question." And give yourself 10 minutes
just to see what you can do on that
problem. What happens to the income of
that person?
It's a It's a great Like I would love to
be a hype person be like, "It obviously
like goes up. They're all going to make
[laughter] so much money." Um there are
some people just for this year
that are taking a step back on income so
that they can fully pivot into the space
of AI. And I want that person to know
that like that's okay. Like your
long-term goal should be financial
stability, not always necessarily
maximizing income. I do think that there
is going to be some instability in
markets. And so, if you are someone who
learns AI and you are someone who
diversifies your sources of income and
is intelligently frugal, right? Not
going down to bare bones, but being
smarter with your money, the combination
of those three gives me a lot more hope
for that person's, you know, net income
at the end of the year. Yeah. And it's a
long-term play. That's That's something
I keep thinking about when you're too
too much into like optimizing
optimizing. You're like
I started in AI almost 20 years ago. I
worked in it every single day for the
last decade. I wouldn't do that unless I
thought that it was one, helpful for me
for my own personal business and
business growth. And two, that I thought
I could help a billion people
figure this out and I thought it was net
positive for them as well. Yeah.
>> So, like my hope, of course, is that
everyone is going to have everything
that they've ever wanted. But, it is
okay to take some side steps and to kind
of move along more of a wall than a
ladder to be able to get there.
Thank you, Ali. I feel like for everyone
who's been listening, uh sometimes you
doing this manual task every single day,
but it takes some time to stop and like
fix it. But, once you do, once you fix
it with AI, you your mind is going to be
blown. Thank you so much for being so
practical. And uh let us know in the
comments uh what you're going to handle
first with uh with Claude. Thank you.
Thank you.
By the way, if you're enjoying this and
you want to dig deeper, like what are
the skills? How do I automate this or
that? I had an amazing conversation with
Kian Katan Forge who teaches AI at
Stanford and uh he co-founded a company
called Deep Learning AI together with
Andrew Ng. His episode was so practical.
He was actually the reason I came back
home from Davos and started doing this
whole Claude thing and uh it completely
changed the way we work. So, tune into
this episode right after this one.